From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, all weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 85. Recorded
live Thursday, September 22nd. 2011. Support
for Hanselman is provided by
Tellerik R a D control
for most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Kendall Miller, founder of Gibraltar
software. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. We
continue the startup series that
will go indefinitely. I don't
know whenever I run out
of startups, but we're having
fun so far. And today
we're going to be talking
with Kendall Miller. He's the
principal and the founder of
Gibraltar making.net software. How's it
going? Kendall? It's going great.
How are you doing Scott?
Very well. Very well. So
you have a startup and
how, how old is your
company now? So we, we
shipped the first commercial version
of Gibraltar just a little
over two years ago. And
we've actually been working at
this a little over three
and a half, but it's
great to benchmark from the
first time you start asking
people to pay for what
you're doing. And so that's
been a little over two
years. Okay. So you've been
asking people to pay for
software for two years, but
how did you fund it?
How did you, how did
you start this and how
many people are you now?
So we got what we
were really lucky. I was
coming out of another startup
situation where basically we were,
you know, the company was
selling out and I was
not one of the owners,
but I responded very heavily
in the project. So I
got a bit of a
bump out of that and
decided that fundamentally, I really
enjoyed doing startups. And so
I looked around for an
opportunity and teams back up
with a partner that I'd
worked with at a previous
project. And we penciled around
it really started just saying,
we're gonna make a consulting
company, but the more we've
worked at, the more we
realized that we've done consulting,
what we really wanted to
do was a for product
work and got going with
that. And we funded it
primarily ourselves for the first,
really the first two years.
And then you relapsed into
it, a little bit of
friends and family financing, the
classic there, but it essentially
all self-funded internally. And when
you're, when you're funding something
like this, like if I
quit today and I want
to go into a startup,
is it as simple as
you know, I get four
or 500 bucks, I get
a copyright, I buy a
website and I just continue
to pay the rent, or,
I mean, how much money
should I set aside for
two guys for two years?
That's a great question. And
it's a lot harder than
that to give you an
idea, even, even on a
small scale, by the time
you get to the point
where the company's cash positive
or ramen profitable each month,
you're bringing enough revenue to
pay yourself enough, to eat
ramen and say, stay alive.
You're usually talking hundreds of
thousands of dollars. And the
reason is that you've got
to, you've got to do
a lot more than just
have a website up to
be a presence, unless you
already are like you yourself.
You could do this pretty
expensively because you're who you
are. And you already have
an audience listening to you
and what you're doing and
interested in what you're doing
next and all of that.
But most folks don't have
that. So you end up
putting a tremendous amount of
energy into being somebody and
getting anybody's attention for what
you're doing. And that requires
a lot of just time
and money over time. You
know, we spend, we budget
between three and $5,000 a
month on a couple different
types of marketing. We do.
And we've been doing that
for over two years. That
adds up because you're doing
that. Even if you don't
get any revenue in a
plus, you've got to have
yourself and a couple of
their folks, it takes a
number of people to pull
off a real product that
can sell in today's market.
And even if you're willing
not pay yourself, which is
where we were for the
first two years, you still
have a lot of expenses
to, to be enough of
a real company. People will
be willing to make an
investment in you, which is
what you're asking. When you
ask them to pay for
your software or service. You
know, you know how, when
you kind of drive through
parts of town you've never
been at before and you
maybe you'll be driving along
and you'll see a place
like, you know, come in
and do pottery, gotta come
in and paint your own
pot. And you think to
yourself, okay, these guys are
paying $2,000 a month in
rent and they want to
charge me $10 to go
and paint this little, little
ceramic pot. It's going to
take, you know, 200 of
these little ceramic pots before
they even hit the rent,
much less pay for stuff.
I mean, I'm sure I
must not. I must not
be the only person that
does that. And don't you
just count the number of
little pots they have to
sell and think, how are
these people in business a
day? Right? In fact, it's
one of the scariest things
about getting going, because in
many ways, for example, we
had set our pricing about
our market. So we sell
to the dotnet tool space,
and that has pretty established
price bands for what people
will pay for tools in
the.net development space. So pretty
much our pricing bands were
set before we sold licensed
one or had one line
of code written. And we
looked at that and we,
we did the math and
said, wow, we're going to
have to sell X, you
know, X licenses a day,
right. Even, and you start
thinking about X people in
the world have to find
my product and love it
enough to pull out a
credit card each day for
us to break even. And
it's it's mind boggling. But
the amazing part is particularly
in like the market of,
of.net is that there's so
many people worldwide in that
space that there are, there
are tons and tons of
prospects. If you have a
product worth getting, and that's,
that's really the challenge, like
the pottery thing or whatever
is, there's gotta be enough
people in your area that
want to do pottery, that
that will happen. And you
also have to be willing
to say at a certain
point, you know what it
turns out well, I love
pottery and you love pottery.
There's only so many little
ceramic frogs and cups that
we can have in our
house. This is it. We
can't make this be viable,
but it is it's daunting.
In fact, you know, for
us, we couldn't even conceive
of what that would look
like, but I will say
it's happened. I, we see
month after month, more and
more folks buying licenses more
and more folks buying our
products as, as more people
hear about it. And you
just have to sort of
face it that will come
around and you won't have
any idea where those people
are coming from. And most
of the time they just,
they just showing up, but
you have to be able
to persevere long enough in
the market for that to
happen. And that's really, I
think the biggest challenge is
it's not the launching the
product, a good rule of
thumb that we've seen in
our own. And I've heard
from talking to a lot
of other entrepreneurs is it
takes about 18 months from
when you first start charging.
And you're really full bore
in the market before you're
generating enough sales on it
on a monthly basis to
pay for your costs. And
we're not being extravagant about
our costs. We're watching it
very carefully, but we're still,
and that was about what
it took for us to
get there. So we had
to survive in a loss
mode for that long before,
before it even started breaking,
even let alone paying back
the investment we put in
to get to there. Yeah.
And that's the tragic thing
about like losses, like the
math doesn't quite, doesn't quite
work. I mean, if you,
if you have a bad
month, not only do you
have to dig out of
that bad month, but then
you also have to do
great the next month. It's
like, I remember when I
was working as a teenager
in retail and they explained
one of the first things
they explained to you is
how bad it is when
someone steals, when someone steals
something, it's not just that
you lose the profit, you
lose the thing that, you
know, the money, it costs
to buy that thing, you
know? Right. And then you
have to go and sell
five more to pay for
that one that got stolen,
et cetera, et cetera. So
I wonder when you worry
about your startup, do you
wonder that tomorrow no one
will buy the product and
that is that's it. We
just saturated the market. It
was a Tuesday. And now
this is Tuesday and September
and all the they've everyone's
bought it. It's over. I'll
tell you what, that, that
relates to one of our
biggest surprises moving from the
consulting business or the internal
corporate development world into, into
commercial software was we were
used to in consulting that
you look at about three,
four months and there's nothing
there, right? No, you don't
know where that conduct is
coming from, but, but it
always seems to show up
by the time you kind
of get close in and
on you go, and you're
always busy with software sales.
We thought we're building this
asset. We'll have this marketing
machine. People will be lining
up. It will be a
steady stream of purchases. It'll
all be good. Instead, what
we've found is literally every
day we go, that's great.
Today was amazing. We just
blew the doors off what'll
tomorrow be, and tomorrow could
be zero. It could absolutely
absolutely what happen. We had
Microsoft when, when they shipped
visual studio, 2010, that April,
we went through six weeks
where there was nothing, all
of our web stats, just
flat flatlined. And in retrospect,
that makes some sense. That's
done it for visual three
20, 10, everybody in our
market stopped pause and said,
what does this mean to
me when the whole visual
studio changes and not in
a framework and all of
that. And they stopped looking
at anything else at secondary,
like tooling and the rest
of it before they figured
out what did this mean
for me? Then they, they
picked it back up and,
and sales actually picked up
and we had a good
summer, but there was six
weeks there where the crickets
were chirping and we could
have turned the lights off.
And that's very nerve wracking.
You have to have a
certain faith that it will
eventually come back. And it
did, you know, we're seeing
a bit of that now
in the shadow of build,
I'm not surprised this time
we were kind of ready
for it. We budgeted, we
actually budgeted for it that
okay, after bill, we're gonna
allow four to six weeks
of quiet and just expect
it. So we're not going
to freak out when that
happens, but it means that
you also, when you have
a good month, you're stocking
it away in a war
chest, just waiting for a
bad month. The other thing
that I worry about if
one were to put together
a product is, is the
support burden. And this might
sound silly, but if your
product sucks, or if you
have a bad release or
something goes wrong, it seems
like the amount of money
it would cost just to
interact with someone is going
to take away from the
sales. Like I always think
about how, how hard the
credit card people and the
bank people try to keep
us from talking to another
human that someone told me
once it was like $8.
If you call the bank
and speak to a human,
right? Like that's how much
it costs for the entire
process before the human shows
up. So they do everything
they can to prevent you
from talking to another human.
But at the same time,
that's how you build relationships.
So how do you balance
support burden? I'm sure you
have like those customers that
just won't leave you alone,
they call you daily. I'll
tell you what, here's the
thing that we've done and
it's very counterculture, but it
has worked out really well
for us, which is that
we make it as ridiculously
easy as possible to get
ahold of us and take
advantage of us in that
regard. And there's a couple
of reasons for it. We
got some great advice early
on from another entrepreneur who
said, when we were worried
about the scalability of our
customer service, he said, okay,
let's say that this guy
calls, and let's say that
he actually calls you on
the phone and he spends
an hour asking you about
something. That's only remotely related
to what you guys have
sold him. But how do
you know that that's not
the best hour you can
spend right now to help
him out? So, because who
knows who else is going
to talk to you? Who
knows where he's gonna go
from that? So what we
instead did was focused instead
of sort of trying to
avoid providing direct customer service
or finding ways to cleverly
Dodge. It, we have lots
of channels to let people
get ahold of us. And
we focused on is trying
to solve their question as
fast as possible. So by
being as effective as we
can, we try to control
our costs that way. And
one of the things we
do there that has been
actually brilliant for us is
we're really big on whatever
screen share technology the person
wants to use. We have
go to meetings, set up
as well as live meeting
and join me. And there's
all these services, right? So
we're very quick. If you
like do a live chat
with us through our website,
you will probably get me
or the other partner or
the lead developer. Cause we're
the ones who monitor that.
Cause we want to make
sure that we can give
you the best fastest answer.
We'll really quickly though, if
you're having an issue anywhere
near our product, say, Hey,
let's have a screen share
because we want to see
what you're doing. Because what
we've discovered is when you're
watching, how someone got themselves
into trouble, that is more
interesting than just making this
go away. Then that may
not be true of credit
card processing. But it's really
interesting for us to see,
for example, how people got
themselves in trouble and.net and
what are the crazy things
that they're trying to accomplish
that we hadn't thought of.
And that generates a huge
amount of our product feedback
that goes into our backlog
and, and, and what we
prioritize actually develop because a
lot of times people will
get into a problem over
in one corner, but they
got there because they didn't
do several things, several steps
back, or they didn't see
another way around to not
have the problem in the
first place. And when you
see their screen is to
see what they're trying to
do, it hits you what's
going on and, and how
you could really make a
difference to those people. And
the other thing finally from
that is there's no one's
used to that. So for
us, it means that our
customers are raving fans of
our ability to provide support.
And frankly, as a startup,
we've gotten away with some
stuff that should not have
gone wrong in our code
because we've absolutely stood behind
it to make it right.
And that's a trade off
you can make as a
startup, right? Because what you
have is you have some
time and you have some
smart people that are readily
available. So capitalize on that.
It may not scale up
to instantly the skeleton Microsoft
size, but it may not
scale up to even midsize
company size, but you're not
a midsize company yet. Right.
So instead, we're just trying
to make raving fans of
everyone we can come in
contact with. And so from
that, we make it really
easy to get ahold of
us and we will make
it really easy to get
support from us. And we'll
go very far to help
people out. There will come
a time that may change
a little bit, but frankly,
that's sort of part of
who we are now. Well,
the question of scale that
you just brought up was
exactly where I was going
with my next question, which
was that won't scale. Like,
you know, bill Gates doesn't
answer the phone anymore. Right?
He did. No, he doesn't.
How big can you get?
And are you, what are
you trying to do? Like,
I always liked the idea
of building what I call
a boutique. And I mean,
I mean, three, four guys
that can last and pay
everyone's rent and pay everyone's
mortgage. And then, you know,
you don't have to work
six days a week. That
would be great. So our
goal and we set this
out ahead of time was
that we didn't, if we
had any one software product
that needed more than 25
total people, we were going
to try to sell it
because that's not the business
we wanted to be in.
Because once you get to
that point, you've got to
be a couple of clicks
up from what's actually going
on in the product. And
that's less interesting to us
now, maybe in five years,
I'll say it's not 25,
it's 50, or it's a
hundred, but we really like
to be involved, be able
to be involved with customers
when we choose to. But
yes, things are gonna change
over time where it may
not be, you get ahold
of me. It may be
you get that. You know,
I'm not buying live chat.
It'll be other folks already
have the, you know, the
engineers involved and it'll trickle
down. And there may come
some time where that actually
goes to sales and a
bit of a triage. But
I want to defer that
as far as I can,
because I think it's such
a differentiator. I'll give you
an example of another company.
I think does really well
at this dev express is
big company, but when you
go onto their forums, that's
not live chat and it's
not a phone call, but
if you go onto their
forums and you post a
question about one of the
products, the folks that answered
that are the development team,
that's actually writing that little
product part of the product
and they get back to
you just immediately on stuff.
I mean, not like their
answer. And I think sometimes
the answers change as companies
get bigger. You don't have
the ability to say, you
bet we'll fix that. And
we'll send you something in
a week or less, but
you can still instill in
your culture that we support
our customers. Fundamentally attitude. I
got my career started John
Deere huge company. And one
of the things that, the
first things they taught us
when he came in and
I didn't know anything about
John Deeres equipment was I
had to learn all the
names of the things because
they said, look, you're gonna
be on a plane somewhere.
Someone's going to find out
you work for John Deere.
And they're going to say,
Hey, I love John Deere.
I've got this X, but
there's one thing. And there's
some problem. You need to
know what to ask what
to get, because if someone
speaks to anyone at John
Deere, since they spoke to
everyone at John Deere, and
we had a whole protocol
for what we did to
get back and make sure
that that person got taken
care of by their local
dealer and it was dealt
with, and that's a huge,
you know, it's a fortune
100 company, but they had
a system to make sure
that that was who we
were. And frankly, you know,
you get your career started
in a place like that.
You just can't let it
go. So my hope is
that we will always be
able to provide that level
of service. We'll just change
the tactics we use to,
to deliver it in ways
that are more cost effective
at scale. Hi, this is
Scott coming to you from
another place in time. Are
you using agile practices to
manage your software development? There's
lots of tools in the
market that manage the steps
of a project, but most
of them focus on individual
roles. Get ready for a
solution that caters for the
success of the whole team.
Guys at Tellerik introduced team
pulse. It's an agile project
management tool. That'll help you
gather ideas, estimate plan, track
progress in a common workspace.
Finally companies, regardless of their
size can use a lightweight
and convenient tool that makes
all the stakeholders work as
a United team. Even if
they're in different countries by
combining intuitive user interface and
the power server light team
poles removes the roadblocks that
you typically face and applying
agile in an effective manner,
no more lost data, no
disparate systems, no lack of
critical analytics regarding the health
and philosophy project. See if
yourself get a free copy
for five users in one
project at tellerik.com/team pulse. And
please do thank tolerance for
supporting Hansel minutes on their
Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t L
E R I K color.
We do appreciate it. They
wouldn't be a Hanselman it's
if there wasn't, Tellerik helping
us. So one of the
things we haven't talked about
yet is what exactly you
make. So very briefly, what
did you build and what
are you selling? Sure. So
we have two software products
in the dotnet market. So
we sell to Don it
developers. We have two products,
one, our namesake product, your
Baldor is a logging and
application monitoring platform. It's basically
a little agent. You're a
little black box. You drop
into any.net app, gathers data
and lets it, send it
back to a server. And
you pull it down into
a client where you can
do all kinds of analytics
on how the features you
people use, how well it
performs, who your users, how
often they run the app.
You can also do that
critical error, defect, triage process.
What kind of errors are
people getting in the field?
What do they correlate to
that type of information? And
that's so that's the first
one we developed internally. And
along the way, about a
year ago, we actually acquired
another product from the company
called Vista DB. And that's
not part of our, our,
our family as well. Cause
we really love the product.
We actually use it in
Gibraltar. So we had the
opportunity to pick it up.
We, we went for it
and that is basically is
a miniature version of SQL
server that runs in your
Don and application. It's a
one Meg assembly that emulates
much of the language and
capabilities of SQL server. So
if you develop for it,
you can switch around and
just change a couple of
radio options and you are
going against SQL server. And
that sells that frankly, actually.
Now in terms of users,
data, how it sells Gibraltar
about two to one, because
a lot of people have
that need and we're, we
love that product. They both
fit in this family though
what we wanted to have
our company and be about,
which is not front end
components for developers, but what
we call rock solid components,
things that are foundational to
go underneath that make it
really works that mid size
and small companies can develop
solutions that just deliver for
their customers and can afford
to do it. But it
seems like, so you've got
a logging tool and you've
got an embedded database, but
isn't Microsoft coming in or
doesn't Microsoft have SQL compact
and some logging blocks. And
you know, you've got logged
for net and all those
other kinds of things like
Elma. I mean, you're basically
describing like the two most
useful in general things that
people have. But I don't,
you know, if Microsoft comes
out with a product like
that, they're, they're not trying
to kill you. They may
not even know you exist.
They're just saying, well, there's
a need. So then they
decide to do, but that
doesn't that go like, like
when SQL compact four came
out, weren't you just like,
Oh no, it's over. There's
always a moment right. Where
you see, Oh my gosh,
you would, did they do
that? And it's common for
is a good example because
it addressed a number of
deficiencies. The previous version of
sequel compact. In fact, I
would say the SQL compact
three, five was the best
advertisement for Vista DB. There
was because it got people
thinking they could do it.
And then they realized the
limitations and came looking for
us. But the good news
is is that unlike Microsoft,
there's the threshold I need
for, of annual sales for
a business to be really
worth. It is relatively low.
You know, if something generates,
say a million or 2 million
in sales a year, that's
a pretty good business that
I would be willing to
be in from a Microsoft
name or even a mid
sized software company. That's not
worth it. It's worth the
marketing budget. So that's great
because it means that we
can just focus in on
what we do. And there's
always that Pang in that
fear. But if you talk
about like Vista DB, we've
really focused in, on being
the most deployable SQL server
engine that you can buy
because we have the best
compatibility with the full SQL
server SQL express and SQL
express is free to purchase,
but it's a large download
that has to be installed
and run as a service.
And for a lot of
applications, that's not workable now
where it is. That's great,
but we provide the option.
It really runs for that
lower scale for folks that
can't do that. And there's
a lot of those folks
out there. Likewise, I'll tell
you on the logging side,
when we got started with
Gibraltar, one is assumptions we
made was that nobody would
buy a log viewer. That
that was something we had
to have a great log
viewer in there, but nobody
would spend even $1 for
the world's most singing, dancing,
beautiful log viewer. Ironically, our
feedback from our first nine
months of sales where people
bought it strictly as a
log viewer. So that assumption
we had was flat wrong.
When we actually talked to
our customers, That's interesting cause
you got them to buy
it, which is, which is
an achievement, but then they
went and used it in
a way you didn't expect,
which seems to be a
common thing in, in startups.
Like you have a vision,
you execute on, you know,
some fraction of that vision.
You think you've got a
lot of success and then
you start talking to the
customers and you realize that
they really expected a different
thing. And they even took
the product in a different
direction. Absolutely. What I like
to tell people is that
up to the moment you
ship the first commercial release,
it's all about your vision.
What do you think this
should be? She had to
put something in for people
to build around and get
and glom onto. But once
it ships, you need to
start listening really carefully to
what do they tell you?
Its value proposition is all
about what did they tell
you? It really is. So
for the first version we
put out what they told
us is this is a
great log viewer. I'm plugging
this into log for net
and using it to view
my log for that data
because it's so much better
than the other logs and
that viewing options I have,
but I really wish it
did these three things. And
from that, we came out
with essentially, there are two
five version, which did those
things. And now that now
we get different feedback from
folks and what they're using
it for. And, and about
every year it's cycles a
little bit and we're adjusting
where the product goes because
of that. But at the
same time, we're also recognizing
that customers are good at
telling you how to refine
where you are and telling
you how they're using what
you're doing, but they're not
good at making this contiguous
jumps to new capabilities. So
for example, we've taken, we
actually taken that two swings
at a certain set of
functionality. And we know the
both, those swings are not
widely used by our customers,
but the ones that have
adopted it really love it.
So our next major version
of Gibraltar, which is coming
out late this year, takes
a third swing at that
basic problem, which is error
management. And does it in
a different way. Based on
that feedback, we, we integrated
a lot of error management
in the system, but we
assumed everyone used a defect
tracking system. We said, you
know what? We don't want
to have our own thing.
We're going to great with
our defect tracking system. Now
it turns out that while
I have always used the
defect tracking system, most companies
don't use it, a real
defect tracking system. Most of
our customers turned out, don't
use real defect tracking system.
They use Excel. So what
they really needed was they
needed us to have that
capability built in, not leverage
the external defect tracking system,
other than the folks that
really do have one. And
for them, it's a deal
breaker. If it doesn't integrate
and that's some of the
challenges you run into, All
right? And I notice that
you do a lot of
community stuff. You go to
a lot of events, you
speak at a lot of
events and stuff like that.
Is that a part of
the business strategy or is
that just your personality? You
know, I justify it to
my partner and to the
rest of the company that
that's all part of our
marketing strategy. In fact, I
think I, I still like
two thirds of our marketing
budget to pay for trips
and sponsorships and things like
that. But to be totally
honest, I do it cause
I love the people. It
is, there's nothing like getting
out and meeting the community.
I wish I'd started doing
it a lot earlier than
I did because there's so
much going on and you
see, you can really hear
from other people, not just
the headline, Hey, this worked
great. I loved how this
new technology, this new approach
works, but you also can
have a conversation with and
find out. Yeah, well there
were all these little issues
that didn't work out so
well and here's what we
had to do and all
of that. And there's so
many passionate folks around the.net
community space, both here and
in, over in Europe that
I've met that it's, it's,
it really motivates us to
do more and do better
and test out ideas and,
and, and talk to these
people to see where they're
going. And they're usually well
ahead. I'll tell you what,
the folks who go to
community events, that's a pretty
self selecting group. Those folks
are, are the tip of
the spear. They're well ahead
of the main part of
the market, but that's good
because it's a small company.
It may take me a
year or a year and
a half to react to
it and assimilate that kind
of feedback and, and have
something actually out in the
market for it. Hmm. Do,
do you think that that's
an urgent thing that other
people should think about? Because
one of the things that
you mentioned a little bit
earlier in the, in the
show was that getting people
to actually hear about your
stuff, like you might have
something amazing and no one
will hear about it. I
mean, I was actually speaking
at a government agency yesterday
and I was showing them
some different things that Microsoft
sells or gives away in
this case. And they'd never
heard of them. And I'm
thinking to myself, wow, if
Microsoft can't get the message
out, how is like Joe
software company's supposed to, you
know, and is talking to
the community the best way,
or is it advertisements in
dead tree newspapers or, you
know, what's the best way
for a startup because there's
so many, let me put
it this way. If you
look at an open source
project as a startup, just
a smaller scale, I get
probably 12, 13 emails a
week of like, Hey, take
a look at this open
source project, trying to get
it off the ground. And
you just wonder, why do,
why do a hundred like
languish, just sit and get
hub or coat flex with
no one using them a
couple hundred downloads and then
other ones take off. It
makes me wonder if marketing
matters at all. Maybe it's
all just word of mouth
marketing is all aligned. Well,
I would say that marketing
has all of those pieces
and, and if you cannot
market your product, you at
best will be the coolest
part, no one ever heard
of. And you're right, that
even the big companies can
have trouble with this. Microsoft.
I think from my standpoint,
the biggest challenge of windows
phone seven is exactly one
of marketing you, if you
can get people to try
it, it doesn't matter how
great it is now. You're
in each specific product space.
You're going to have certain
unique marketing challenges, but as
a small company, one of
the greatest lies that we
tell future entrepreneurs often is,
Oh yeah. And now with
the internet is a great
level. You just put up
a website and Google will
index it. And you're golden.
Maybe by some ad words,
you know what that's just
doesn't pan out at all.
You can find ways to
generate traffic in a short
burst. If you re, if
you get lucky, like let's
say you, you were to
post something about your Balter
at the top of your
blog. I guarantee you for
three, four days, we would
get a huge spike of
traffic. I also would bet
you solidly that. If I
look back six months later,
it would have made virtually
no difference in our sales.
Exactly, exactly. People always like,
Oh, great, thanks for tweeting
my thing. I was like,
well, you know, of the
a hundred people that visited
it, maybe one person installed
it. You know, I mean,
conversion ratios are just horrible.
People are happy to look
at stuff, but to actually
get someone to take an
action is a hugely difficult
thing, But here's the metric.
And, and, and I think
it's really important for startups
to spend energy and try
to develop a metric or
yardstick to measure what you're
doing. And frankly, be willing
to try just about anything
if you can measure it.
So for example, we actually
stopped doing a lot of
our internet advertising and redirected
all of that money into
funding, community events, but it
had had provides us a
metric, which was $3 per
person we talked to. And
we just talked to pretty
generally, like, you know, I'll
spend three bucks at least
exchange email with somebody that
I've never, you know, back
and forth or a live
chat or an actual, you
know, live demo. And so
we thought about, and he
said, you know what? Geez,
if we spend a thousand
dollars to sponsor to code
camp and we get a
hundred people to walk by
the booth, which is easy
to do, what does that
cost? That cost is $10
a person. All right. Well,
if we also speak at
that camp, there's another a
hundred people that, that maybe
in that room or there
maybe it's 50 or whatever
it is, what's that costing
us per person that we're
talking to. We use that
sort of is our quality
bar, because it really is
about freeing those conversations in
the end. People buy from
other people, they that's what
happens. So you have to
find some way of being
a person to them or
being somebody they know where
feel like trying out. And
we find the moment for
us right now. I mean,
you've answered a good channel
for that. If I was
developing billing software for dentists,
I would be finding every
dental conference that there was,
I'd find the local association
of dental professionals or whatever
it is, and in, in
Spokane and, and go there
and talk with them. And
you have no idea quite
how those are gonna pan
out. So you sort of
have to just keep plugging
away at that, but finding
some way of measuring it
to adjust over, say three
or six months, what you're
doing and, and keep mixing
it up. We do get
some feedback that says, for
example, community events, the first
time we go to a
community event, particularly one when
maybe a code camp, we
get very little traction. When
we show the second or
third time, we get a
lot of traction. People are
looking at you're committed to
their community, their space to
do something before they take
you seriously. But in the
tool space, I find that
we find, we think that
that's effective. That said I
would be hard pressed to
prove it. And as a,
as a, as a, you
know, if you're a developer,
I don't like things I
can't prove. But reality of
it is that's marketing. You
need to focus not on
traffic though. That's the challenge
that you talk about a
tweet or, or being a
top of blog. That's about
just sharing traffic, traffic. There's
nothing wrong with traffic intrinsically,
but traffic doesn't actually move
your business forward on its
own. That that is really
the, like the conclusion almost
right there. I mean, go
where they are, right. Go
where the developers are. We've
been talking about that ourselves.
I was at a tech
ed recently with Damien Edwards
and we found a couple
of ladies that worked for
a government agency. And they'd
been in, they said, they'd
been using web forms since
2004, and they'd never heard
of Scott goo and they'd
never heard of me. And
they never read a book.
And they just basically, you
know, they they've done web
forms for, you know, almost
10 years and had no
idea that this community existed.
So then now our challenge
is while we met them
at this conference, it was
the first conference I'd ever
gone to. But our question
is then where are these
people hanging out? You know,
where do they go? They
don't go to, to, to
code camps, you know? So
I have to go to
their, do they have to
go to their place of
business at this point? You
know, that's a, that's a
real challenge that many competing
professionals don't go to anything.
They go to work and
then they go home. Now
they may not be the
best folks to, to reach
out to you want to
find the folks on the
bubble, right? That would be,
if they realized there was
something available to them, they
would make that extra effort
to go and do it.
But the governance sector is
very isolated. You know, the
public sector and the private
sector are really very, have
very different criteria for making
decisions. We do sell the
bull sectors. And it's very
interesting. Here's the completely different
decision matrix is on those
two sides. And on the,
on the public sector, you
really do have to have
different way of reaching in.
That's emphasizes working in that
government space. And it's very
long term, but yeah, it's
a big challenge to, to
get into those, those organizations,
if we back off from
public sector, which is so
specialized that you really almost,
you just have to have
a dedicated or organization that
just thinks like that and
works in that space. How
do you, you know, how
do you get yourself into
those environments beyond code camps
and the like, well, you
do have to keep, keep
asking yourself, where are these
people going, or what are
they looking at and how
do I put an ad
in their way? And it
may be that you have,
for example, an ad on
stack overflow, that's leading to
something else because gosh, if
they search a problem, they
may well end up at
stack overflow. If that type
of user is a good
fit for what you're doing,
or you may end up
in a situation where it's
not, it's not about technology
users, groups, but about going
to the end customer groups,
you know, the government sector
does have all kinds of
groups that worry about all
sorts of things that, but
they tend to not have
these pure technology groups. And
some of the large companies
do that. They'll actually have
internal groups. I know a
lot of the pharmaceutical companies,
for example, have internal groups
that just worry about technology
and pharma. And those are
some interesting groups to get
into because once you can
get any connection into that
space, there's a, there's a
lot of people there and
they tended to look at
what each other do, dude,
to pick their products and
pick what to move forward
with because you must have
already gone through a lot
of problems that takes again.
Yeah. Because the other thing
that there's a little dirty
secret about buying software by
using software and inmate, this
is probably true. Really it's
really true of most products
is that nobody really has
the time or the need
to make a completely what
you might call well-informed purchase
decision. In other words, if
you go out and you
need a grid control, your
boss might say, okay, well,
we need to find the
best grid control for the
least money to solve this
application. But I can guarantee
you, you're not actually going
to download each and every
possible grid control, open source
and closed source. Test them
all out, find out which
one is exactly the very
best for your need. And
then go with that one.
You're going to, you're going
to find some way of
subsidy. Then some things that
you feel you could live
with seeing if they appear
that they're going to work
and you're going to put
your name behind them, that
those are our worthy solutions
in the end, are you
willing to have your reputation
attached to that option? That's
what people really work, whether
it's buying cars or buying
grids or buying logging systems.
And so what you need
to get them to do
is feel good enough with
you that they're willing to
put their reputation at stake
a bit for you. And
that's one of the reasons
why we focus so much
on our service side, our
customer sports size. I want
to make sure people feel
like even if something's not
quite right, they'll be able
to work with us and
be able to get it
right. And as a small
company, the thing is as
a startup, that's something you
can do that he's the
biggest Abbott's players can not
do. They just can't afford
it. Know Oracle can't afford
to provide that type of
personal service at no cost,
but you can so use
that advantage to compensate for
the disadvantages you have as
a small startup that Oracle
does not have. Yeah. Yeah.
There's a lot of information
there. You, you, you, do
you have any other presentations
of yourself talking about startups
online that people who are
listening might want to check
out because we've got it.
We do. And, and cause
I do, I do talk
about this at a lot
of Coke camps and other
community organizations. If you go
to our blog, either from
the www.gibraltarsoftware.com site, or just
go straight to that rock
solid dot Gibraltar software.com, you'll
actually find all the slide
decks of each of the
talks had been at an
Elizabeth van schedules. Cause I
may be talking in your
area and I would really
love to make the connection
and, and have a chat,
whether you're doing a startup
now or just thinking about
it or just want to
peer over the fence at
what it would look like.
It's, it's always a lot
of great conversation and, and
that's why that's really why
we do it. You know,
I, I'm lucky that I
can have the company pay
for the things that I
feel are important for me.
I use that to sponsor
users, groups, and community events
and go and attend. And
I have the opportunity. There's
actually some operations coming up
on the events page right
now, where I talk about
how to set up your
own software company and what
it takes to succeed in
New York city, the New York cook
camp and over, over in
the UK coming up later
in October. Very cool. Well,
thanks so much for chatting
with us today. I appreciate
it. It's been great. Thank
you much. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
Week. .